Why I picked the Linux Kernel

My motivations for joinging the linux kernel project were twofold, 1. I'm looking for a remote job I can do from anywhere in the US, currently I'm based in the beautiful state of Nebraska and am unable/unwilling to move. Therefore I wanted to start shifting my habits away from using my personal computers/tech for gaming(not knocking on gaming as it has a high range of useful effects but it can get old after awhile, especially because it doesn't lead to any real-world progress) and start shifting it to more of a real world focus, not knocking on gaming but it doesn't provide real value to the world, it's just a good way to practice, connect with people, and mess up. I picked this internship as I've been in IT for almost 5 years at this point of time and was wanting to find a challenge beyond just catching errors and helping people utilize technology better. I've been wanting to improve my programming skills with a real-world application and was looking for a real world project where I could start working on them that involved my work being used in a beneficial manner. I'm also interested in contributing more to the world around me as there are a lot of things that could be improved with code. I had been planning to get my CKA and I then saw this opporunity while browsing the site and was opted to apply for it. Linux has a unique place in the software ecosystem as it tends to be a hub for advancement and learning and I was excited to be a part of that.

My experience

Now coming into this internship I had no experience with C, the closest I got to it was writing binary trees with C++ in college and that was almost 6 years ago at this point, it also had no real world application so I don't remember much of it. now C is actually a fairly simple language once you learn the memory management aspect of it, however, I wasn't aware of websites like learn-c.com so I started by just messing with HID(Human Input Device) devices. I have a Red Dragon keyboard which has some custom USB setup and doesn't use the default HID driver provided with most linux kernels so my very first issue was building a kernel with the HID driver for Red Dragon keyboards, now the keyboard does actually send input, I have a couple of old HP servers a friend found on craigslist for $100, I've used them to test various virtualization appliances over the years as well as learn about the physical internals of the server.

I wasn't able to work much within September beyond messing with HID devices, towards the end of September I opted to quit my job as there wasn't much I could do there(it involved a lot of sitting around and doing nothing, which is great except for research but not for actually accomplishing things, my biggest accomplishment there was just a PowerShell script that interfaced with a HTTP API.)

I then opted to start digging into sparse to see if there was any code it didn't like that I could refactor, now, as I didn't know anything about C this proved to be a futile effort as I didn't even know what I should be looking for to improve. Fortunately, around this time on the discord I saw that Josef Bacik in btrfs was looking for people to help him in btrfs so I opted to message him and see if I could help out there. This turned out to be a great decision on my part as I wound up doing some work on a couple of red-black binary trees, specifically shortening some boilerplate.

Now this took me a bit of time to fully figure out as I had absolutely no idea what I was doing so I wound up spinning my wheels and making a lot of really dumb mistakes, however, I persevered through it and was able to accomplish sending out the first 6 patches on the first week of December.

Next Steps

 I thought this was a great opportunity as it allows me to get into the nuts and bolts of how information is stored, it's also useful as it enables me to practice C more, I'm currently working on part of the ENOSPC rework[https://github.com/btrfs/btrfs-todo/issues/53] and am planning to contribute to that pretty heavily before I fully consider myself done with this internship. Overall I really enjoyed my experience as the internship enabled me to jump into a new tech stack, learn a ton of new things, and overall improve my understanding of the ecosystem my career is in. It also is pretty great because I have a much better understanding of the fundamental systems I'm working on as well as what to do with stacktraces, coredumps, etc.